So the final method we're going
to look at in implementation
detail from the WordSearcher
class is the printSuffixSlice()
method, whose design and
behavior we just visualized
in the previous lesson.
So this particular approach
will show you how to use all
the things we talked about,
focusing primarily, of course,
on dropWhile(), which is
the interesting one that was
introduced in this example.
So here's printSuffixSlice().
This prints a slice
of the results that
start at a particular word.
And again, we're going to
show collect(groupingBy()),
dropWhile() and forEach().
So as you can see, we take
a list of search result
parameters that are passed
in, and we convert that
into a stream of search results.
We then go ahead and use the
collect() terminal method
of operation in conjunction
with groupingBy to create a map.
And as with before,
the key to the map
will be the word in
the search results,
and the values will be created
by the downstream collector.
We'll talk about that later
when we talk about collectors
in more detail.
Again, as before we use
the LinkedHashMap here.
And we use a
LinkedHashMap because we
want to be able to have the
iterators be able to iterate
through the map in the order in
which the items were originally
inserted.
And so that is what
LinkedHashMap is well
suited for.
Even though the value is
hashed to wherever they hash,
LinkedHashMap keeps track
of the insertion order
so we can be iterated
in that order.
And that's exactly what
we want for this behavior.
And then, as we'll
talk about later,
the factory method
toDownstreamCollector
creates a downstream collector,
then merges all the result
lists together into
a single result list,
just to make things
a little cleaner.
And you'll see
the implementation
of this in the "Java
Streams, Implementing Custom
Non-Concurrent
Collectors" lesson.
What happens next is,
now we have a map--
and it's a LinkedHashMap, but
for our purposes it's a map.
So we call the entrySet() method
to get the list of entries
in the map.
And then we call stream() to
convert the list of entries
into a stream of entries.
And then we go ahead and
apply the dropWhile() method.
And as you'll recall, the
dropWhile() method will slice
the stream by basically dropping
or ignoring anything that
doesn't match the word that's
passed in as a parameter
to printSuffixSlice().
And then the final thing we'll
do is we end up with a stream
of entries that were the
ones that were not dropped
by dropWhile(), the ones
starting at "la" and beyond.
And then we go ahead
and call printResult(),
passing in the key for that
entry and the value for that
entry.
And that, again, is just
a little bit different
syntactically from what you saw
with the printResult()'s entry,
which was a little
bit simpler than this.
This one is more
interesting in many ways.
You can go back and look at
[? printResult()s ?] if you
want to kind of compare and
contrast how it was used
before, and also if you want
to see how printResult() is
actually implemented.
I'm not going to
repeat that code here.
Once again, this is the
Stream's forEach() method,
not the Map's forEach() method.
Map's forEach() method was used
in the printResult()'s example.
Stream's method is used
in printSuffixSlice().
And the reason for
that, of course,
is that here we're
able to have a stream.
And we needed a
stream because we
had to drop the entries
we didn't care about.
Just for kicks, here's
the implementation
of the notEqual() method.
So this returns true if the
entry's key that's passed
to notEqual() doesn't
equal the word.
Otherwise it returns false.
So if they're equal
it returns true,
if they're not equal--
sorry, if they're not equal,
it returns true.
If they're equal
it returns false.
You can see here that
the parameters of the map
entry and the word to match.
And then we just have
this little expression
that gets the key
from the entry, which
of course is a string.
And we compare that to the word
by using the equals() method
on a string.
We don't, of course, want
to be using the == method,
which will not give you
the right result at all.
So instead we use the--
sorry, the == operator.
We want to use the equals()
method to find our string,
and then we invert the
sense of the case to get
the notEqual()'s behavior.